# CART-with-scoring
Trees built with data have been widely used for nonparametric prediction. Probabilistic prediction is preferred over point predictions when uncertainty plays a large role in analysis and decision making. We study the case when a tree is modified to produce nonparametric predictive distributions.  We find the standard method for building trees may not result in good predictive distributions. We suggest changing the splitting criteria for trees to one based on proper scoring rules.  Analysis of both simulated data and several real datasets demonstrate that using these new splitting criteria result in trees with advantageous behavior considering the entire predictive distribution.

This repository contains the code, data, and numerical experiments and reports related to this study.

# To generate subfigures in Figure 2 left panel of the draft manuscript, run methane_working.py. You could run it line by line first to check whether the directory it read from and write to is correct.  The code will run in parallel using the joblib python package. So on a local machine, the maximum number of replications would need to be as many as the number of computing notes (i.e., most likely 4). Currently, and I think this may be a new Python version issue for me, different replications are somehow giving me identical solutions. I have not had a chance to troubleshoot this yet. The random number structure is not very strong. So it may be that the seed does not get changed. This was a non-issue in 2019. Upon completion of the code, 8 csv files and 4 png files will be created in the results folder. The png files are the four plots in Figure 2 left panel.
